#the world of MP3 player be blind , and since most people do not understand the technology -lsb- myself include -RSB- , user-friendliness be extremely important . 
unfortunately , Creative offer scant few page of instruction , which mean that I be on own from the outset . 
after attempt to navigate the clumsy touch-pad system , I could not get the unit to download my wma file . 
#When most of we purchase these little devise , we do so because of they diminuitive size and extraordinary storage capacity . 
so , you might inquire , why DO not they make it a FIRST PRIORITY to CAREFULLY , SIMPLY EXPLAIN HOW DOWNLOAD MUSIC FROM your music library to THEIR DEVICE ??? 
this seem academic to me.Most of we just want to plug and play , not spend a year navigate a maze of complicated option ... like transfer everything on a hard drive to this stupid thing . 
#I do not care what else it can do . 
#I just want MUSIC to eminate from it when I want , how I want.All of this say -LSB- as it be on it be way back to Amazon -RSB- , the one song it do include provide far better sound than the IPOD . 
the base be deeper and the high be crisper . 
unfortunately , the touch-pad issue -LSB- non-intuitive -rsb- and poor instruction guide kill it . 
#Why get lock in to crappy Itunes weather you want to or not ? 
#i get 6000 mp3 's you will never register or gay up . 
#two day after write this review below , I want to remove another two star . 
#I just discover another con in my list of pro and cons.This one be particularly bothersome : allegedly one can use the Zen Micro as a portable drive to store and transport datum from one computer to another . 
#ahhh ! 
there be a catch , the manufacturer do not tell you . 
#I just try to move a load of plain datum file from my home computer to my office work computer , and it be promt I to install Zen Micro software , etc. ... #I have use similar device and they be seamless and simple . 
who want to go through the hassle of load software onto a `` foreign '' computer just to move over some simple -lrb- * . 
txt -rrb- file ? 
#This bring my review to one star ! 
#But Amazon will not allow I to reduce the number of star once I have already establish three two day ago . 
the sound be great , the portability , etc. . 
. 
all the `` stuff '' you expect from a good mp-3 player , this Zen Micro have it . 
#It COULD have be a great product . 
#Why be not it ? 
#read the next six mixed pro and con : . 
# 1 . 
#the company have receive thousand of complaint about this and refuse to do anything about it . 
. 
# 2 . -rrb- 
WORST FEATURE POSSIBLE , THIS ALONE make it RATE one star : what be up with no recharge cord ? 
you have to purchase that separately for some outrageous cost . 
#If you want to recharge it , you must connect it to you computer . 
#the recharge cord will do the job in a fraction of the time that the USB cable will hook to you computer . 
I take my Zen Micro with I over the weekend , and be force to lug my laptop with I on the trip for one reason : to keep the Zen Micro charge . 
#infuriating ! 
nearly all other mp-3 produce company include a recharge cord with they product that can be plug into a wall socket . 
I have trash this product on other opinion site base on this major flaw alone . 
#What be up with nickle and dimeing consumer on the recharge cord ? 
#buy from another company and run from Creative , Inc. #Their product may appear more enconomical , but it be not in the long run . 
. 
# 3 . 
the box include a little polyester , pull-string BAG , -lrb- yes , you read right a bag , something a boy would carry ten marble in -rrb- and try to pass it off as the case . 
if you want to purchase a real case or container or clip-on carrier for you Zen Micro , expect to purchase it separately and to dish out big time . 
. 
# 4 . 
#some other company require you to send you player back and then charge you a additional $ 130 to replace they battery . 
creative do well on its rechargeable battery feature . 
. 
# 5 . 
# -rrb- I purchase this device primarily to record off the built-in fm receiver for lecture and seminar that be broadcast live over a fm signal for the hearing impair . 
the Zen Micro FM receiver be ok , not great . 
IRiver have a better fm receiver build in , but the drawback to IRiver product be they be flimsy and poorly construct . 
#I have go through two of they in two year . 
. 
# 6 . -rrb- 
the Zen Micro appear sturdy and well construct , hefty , if you will , far better than many of its competitor . 
. 
well , I have a ipod mini - and I really like it , but all in all , I like the Zen Micro more . 
# why ? 
smaller size , 1 gb of more space , radio , voice recording , removable battery , cooler look , all in one . 
the touchpad be annoy sometimes -lrb- give I the click-wheel and pressable button any day -rrb- , but not at all as difficult to get over as other people be saying.i love how small the thing be , and the blue glow - I have have it for two week with no electronic problem at all . 
Creative Media Source be very easy to use once you get the hang of it , and the file transfer be fast . 
sound quality be great , fm tuner be fine , as be the recorder . 
this be the mp3 player with everything I need . 
as long as it last I a good three year , I be satisfied . 
#I first want to say that I think Apple be make the same old mistake as they do with Macintosh year ago . 
#this proprietory software to download . 
# -lrb- that be a major turn off -rrb- . 
#I be the type of person that will always go against the mass of blind follower so there be no way I be get a ipod . 
also if you want a device that do soo much more than the Ipod minus but be at the same price , this be the player for you . 
#the reason why I do not give the Zen Micro 5 star be that they also seem to want to conform the the Ipod sense of style . 
and supply those stupid white headphone . 
#Let 's face it . 
#Apple be Apple . 
#So Creative should be `` creative '' . 
#I have be look for a portable MP3 player for awhile now . 
#With so many choice it be a tough decision . 
#my first instinct be to go with a ipod . 
#I visit quite a few forum and while the ipod be a great player I be concern with the battery life and the inability to change they without break open the case . 
#I start look at the Creative Zen Micro and after read numerous review from message board and magazine I decide I would give the Zen a try . 
#all I can say be what a wonderful choice ! 
#I order from Amazon and get the Limited Edition package that include a free battery ! 
upon open the box I be confront with this small cute little MP3 player . 
#I pop one of the battery in and to my surprised it start right up . 
#I do a quick test by select a few file and copy they over and they load right in . 
#pressed play and I be off . 
the touch pad do take a little get use to . 
#I be still try to manage the thing myself , but I have find that if you put the sensitivity to low it be fine . 
overall I be incredibly impress with my new Zen Touch . 
it be cute as anything and the glowing blue led look super cool around the edge . 
for the price I think this be a remarkably fun MP3 player . 
#enjoy ! 
I have have this player for more than 4 month and I be very happy with it . 
#I use it on a average 5 hour a day i hook it up to my Belkin FM transmitter in the car or to my Logitech 2.1 speaker at home , I rarely use it with the earbud , though they be much better than the one you normally get with other mp3 player . 
the look & Feel : I have the black one and the contrast neon blue on the button add a very nice ambience . 
#the light pulsate when you be charge it almost as if it be breathe . 
the player itself be tiny , it get a bit bulky when you put it in the hardcase , which you need to do if you do not want to get scrathe on the back -lrb- its a nice look back too -rrb- . 
it feel tiny in the hand without it . 
the stand that come with it be very useful to prop it up on the desk . 
#the belt clip however be not very useful if you move around a lot . 
the blue backlit LCD look really neat and be easy to read . 
the touch control take a little get use to but now I would not change it for the scroll wheel . 
the touch button be texture so that you finger sdo not slip which be very thoughtful . 
Reliability & Build I drop the player once from about 4 ft , and it fall hard , but keep on playing . 
the hardcase they give with it must work well . 
it feel solid and not flimsy like the carbon . 
sound I be no audiophile but I be amaze by the clarity the player have , it be much better than the sound card on my computer and louder too . 
I have have the ipod minus and it perform on the level with my sound card but the micro beat it outright . 
best of all the wma -lrb- I have a lot of they -rrb- sound great . 
Utility its get a huge list of feature include a fm recorder a calender and contact list . 
#its not convinient to enter name of course but synchronise it with outlook and it become a gem of a address book . 
the song record with FM be as good as the original signal . 
#the interface take 2 sec after you press record to show up but its actually start record at the moment you press record . 
Software The software that come along with it be not very intuitive but once you be use to it , it do the job well . 
create and modify playlist be easy and clean . 
there be 2 thing that need fix First be the battery life . 
it will run for 6 hr without problem with medium usage of the button . 
I think that for its price compare to the ipod the creative zen be pretty good . 
#i have a lot of file in wma so that be the biggest factor in my decision to purchase the zen . 
however after just one month my headphone jack be break as a result of normal , every-day use . 
#by break i mean that it would no longer transmit sound . 
the good news be that the creative support be very responsive and after some email and postal exchange , i have a new zen . 
#i havent use it much yet so i dont know if i will have the same problem ; obviously i hope not . 
#in principle playlist , album name , artist name , etc would help you organize but this only work if you track have all the necessary datum ; mine do not . 
#and if you have 2500 song , as you might very well , you will be reluctant to edit the clip property of 2500 file . 
the sound be quite good , in term of volume . 
the headphone be not very comfortable , but most people have a certain style they like so just go buy new one or keep the one you have . 
i didnt have any installation problem ; and the touch pad be fine , even if it be sort of inaccurate . 
#you just get use to it after a while . 
i didnt get ipod because i dont especially like itune -lrb- no music i want , but that just I -rrb- and the creative product be cheaper ; and i need to be able to use WMA file . 
all-in-all , its good enough for its price as long as it doesnt break again due to normal use . 
#This be a difficult player to review because I would recommend it on a case-by-case basis . 
#If you be not computer savvy or if you want thing as simple as they can be , get the ipod . 
#bottom line . 
#However , since you be read this review , you want to avoid get a ipod . 
#For whatever reason . 
there be also a low number of people , like I , who love itune but want to get the Zen Micro . 
#I will talk more about that later . 
#first of all , why do every single piece of media library software that come with a MP3 player suck ? 
# -lrb- itune be a exception of course -rrb- . 
#i like to keep all of my mp3 in one folder and manually do this be a pain . 
#Bottomline , do not even bother with the software that come with the Zen Micro . 
nagative of the Player itself : you need to do a little work before have full enjoyement of this player . 
# 1 . 
#set the sensitivity of the touch pad to low . 
#Also , as soon as you select a song and set you desire volume level , put the player on hold . 
even on the low sensitivy level , a slight touch can skip or pause the track . 
# 2 . 
#update the firmware which can be find on the creative web site . 
this fix some glitch such as the player freezing . 
#positives : reason for get the Zen Micro instead of the iPod : 1 . 
the battery be removable . 
#You can buy a new battery for 49.99 . 
#with the ipod , if the battery have reach it be life span -lrb- after about a year -rrb- , and you do not buy the warranty from the store , you need to buy a new player . 
# fm radio build in -lrb- Howard Stern -rrb- . 
# 3 . 
Record memo use the build in microphone . 
# 4 . 
the player look so much better when you be actually hold it . 
#the photo do not do it justice . 
the back of the player be nice too , with water ripple inside the clear white coating . 
# 5 . 
you can use it as a storage Hard Drive . 
#Now , about the itune . 
I have no problem use itune with the Zen Micro -lrb- in a makeshift sorta way -rrb- . 
#This be what I do : I copy all the music I want to import to the Zen Micro into a itunes play list . 
#after that , you connect you Zen Micro and open My Computer . 
#click on `` Zen Micro Media Explorer '' and then click on `` Transfer Data between PC and Device '' after that , a File Explorer window open . 
#and all you do be select all the track in the iTunes playlist and drag they to the File Explorer window . 
#It 's not as seamless as if you be to use a ipod , but it only take a few seconds longer . 
#so yeah , you can have the best of both world . 
# * of Course , if you have buy track from itune , this will not work . 
#You can only copy song you have download for free or rip from a CD . 
# ** I honestly do not see the point of buy song from itune when there be so many free alternative . 
#but if you get that `` fuzzy legal feeling '' from pay for song , at least buy they from allofmp3.com , there be no restriction and the song cost penny . 
#i be addict to music . 
#i be also somewhat of a audiophile . 
#Mp 3 player be like a blessing and a curse for people like I . 
#on the one hand , you have the ability to store and play over 1000 song on one little piece of machine . 
#on the other hand , you get terrible sound quality . 
#I decide to go with the convienence factor and purchase a creative zen micro . 
#I be at -lsb- random electronic store -rsb- , browse through player , and come across two that make the cut . 
#The first be a ipod 5gb -lrb- I could kick myself for not buy it -rrb- , and the other be a creative 5gb . 
#the creative come with a free trial of -lsb- random file sharing company -RSB- `` to go '' . 
#so that be the one I buy . 
#too bad . 
first thing I notice be that the creative be not well make . 
one drop from a pocket or desktop , and it would be a goner . 
problem with the sound quality be evident right away , but even I could not imagine they would be that bad . 
the eq be awful , and even at top volume , the bass be flat sound . 
crank the master volume level up past the mark of the bar only lead to distortion and compromise sound quality . 
the headphone jack give out after only a couple week of use , and the stock earbud be replace same day with some high end sony 's I would be have . 
#They do not really make any difference . 
#I also experiment with a adapter for the car . 
if you have be listen to cd 's in you car for awhile , deal with the drop-off in sound quality may take some get use to . 
however , if there be one thing I like about the creative , it would be the car adapter . 
#hands down , better quality than ipod 's . 
#that be not say much , but hey , I like to be positive . 
even after all the nightmare sound problem , I would still half-way like this product if it keep it be promise ; the ability to store 1500 song . 
I get about 700 load up before it tell I I be full , and at that point , I be ready to toss it out the window . 
#Otherwise , you should get a ipod . 
my friend have a ipod , and although the sound quality probably will not meet most audiophile standard , the product itself be better than anything creative have make . 
#features -lsb-_VBP - -rsb- -lsb- u -rsb- -lsb- cc -rsb- it hold be a promised amount of song , and the headphone jack/volume control deliver a more impressive performance than creative ' . 
#If you be a audiophile , you already know that mp3 player be far from impressive . 
#player -lsb- -1 -RSB- -LSB- be -RSB- however , this one make a ipod sound like you old LP 's , so even if you be a casual listener , I would advise that you avoid the purchase of this product . 
terrible . 
#I buy this two month ago at a local retailer , after spend considerable time read review here of this and other 5GB player . 
also , the WMA compression format be superior to MP3 , especially at lower bit rate , so I need a player that could handle WMA and integrate well with my Windows XP computer . 
I be fortunate to get the packaging that still include all the accessory -lrb- desk stand/hard case , belt clip , wall charger , etc -rrb- . 
and so far , I have be very , very happy with my Zen Micro . 
it be be use daily and I have have none of the problem report by other reviewer -lrb- headphone jack , player lock up , etc -rrb- . 
#Just in case , I buy a two-year extended warranty for about 15 % of the purchase price of the player . 
#I promptly give the included earbud to my wife , I be use a pair of Sennheiser PXC250 noise-canceling headphone with the Zen Micro . 
the Micro have a impressive array of very nice feature and a well design user interface . 
what I like the most : - small and solid feel . 
the Zen Micro be smaller than it look in picture , and feel very solid . 
the blue backlight be pretty cool . 
- great sound ! 
I be very impressed , I encode at 192 kbp and the audio quality be great , especially with the better headphone . 
#I manage to fit about 700 track on the player , but many of those be 6-15 minute long classical track . 
# - integration with Media Player . 
the first thing I do be upgrade the firmware to the version require for WMP10 , it sync flawlessly with Media Player and transfer be fast . 
- replaceable battery . 
#A must for I , the fact that you can carry extra battery be a big bonus . 
# - the FM Radio . 
#I find myself listen to the radio a lot . 
#You have to be in a area with good reception , but where I live I can get most of my favorite station quite well . 
# - Doubles as a removable disk drive . 
with the right firmware , drag and drop to and from the player like any other jump drive . 
I have not yet use all the feature , like the calendar , etc , but as a music player this little thing rock . 
#Plus , from the creative discussion forum it be clear that they have some problem with excessive battery drainage with the current firmware . 
#They seem to be work on a fix and will probably sort it out soon . 
#for I , I get through a typical day 's listening just fine , and I could probably squeeze out two day , but it really be no big deal to just charge the Micro overnight . 
even the `` shorter '' battery life , though , have not impair my positive experience with the Zen Micro in any way . 
if you can get one with all the accessory and a cheap extended warranty , this be the player to get ! 
Highly recommend . 
#Update 8/11/05 : the latest release of the iPOD firmware fix teh calender sync bug i note below . 
#I buy this a couple of month ago after research all the review compare with the iPod minus . 
the Micro seeem like a ipod for less . 
#I get rid of my older PDA figure that since the only function I use on it anyways be to manage my contact and calender , I could now use my Zen Micro . 
pro : - excellent sound , even with the headphone that come out of the box , but it absolutely rock with my Bose Quietcomfort 2 set . 
- look sleek , compact , have a radio . 
Limitations : - not a lot of original accessory like the ipod . 
#I wait for Creative 's fm transmitter for a month , finally buy a Belkin Tunecast II , which be not great . 
#I get occasional hiss while drive . 
- the battery life leave a lot to be desire . 
# Though rate at 12 hr , I could barely manage 8 and I have two spare as well . 
I download the new firmware which be suppose to take care of the problem , but it have not work . 
- the outlook synch only work for non recur appointment , which personally be very annoying to I but probably wont be to most people . 
- I occassionally flip song while work out as i accidently hit the pad even lightly -lrb- yes i have it in maximum desensitized mode -rrb- . 
#i wish they have a `` lock '' function like cell phone to prevent this . 
- not compatible with Audible.com book . 
overall , it do its basic function very well , but we expect more from the mp3 player today and the Zen Micro do not rise to the occassion . 
#I first sign up for Napster on line . 
#loved the service so much I decide to buy a MP3 player and upgrade from the basic Napster to Napster to go . 
#They have a list of compatible player which I miss read . 
#So my first MP3 player purchase be incorrect . 
#to transfer song require you to pay 99 cent . 
#the player I first purchase be the Creative Nomad Jukebox Zen Xtra 40 GB MP3 Player . 
#this player be not compatible with Napster to go . 
#the player be large and bulky . 
#the button be locate on the side make it difficult to use . 
#the plus be the storage size but I do not like hear the hard drive spin . 
#I also hate the packaging , with a passion . 
#It be one of those plastic glue container that can take you thirty minute to open . 
#accessories be cheap look . 
#the player be not very appealing either . 
#All this before I find out the bad news . 
#finally I upgrade the firmware and log in to Napster . 
#Upon log in I receive a notification that my player work with Napster but not Napster to go . 
#It be time to exchange it for the other player the Creative Zen Micro 5 GB MP3 Player Black . 
#its a few buck more and have only 5 GB 's of storage but its well worth the trade off . 
#This be Creative 's attempt to compete with the IPod minus . 
#To bad Napster software be not compatible with Apple IPod 's . 
#its my first purchase choice . 
#actually only three player be on the list for Napster to go . 
do not worry this player rock . 
it be also the most appealing . 
#immediately you could tell a very distinct difference between the two Creative MP3 player . 
for the Zen Creative focus on packaging which look well think out , well present and easy to open and put back together . 
#I keep box for all my equipment for storage and moving . 
it have a cardboard slip cover with a nice layered box casing inside . 
# you will find a small folder/envelope on top along with the player . 
#accessories be in reusable bag unlike the Nomad which require you to tear each back plastic store bag open . 
a distinct ipod relation be evident with white color cable , power plug and the very nice Zen case with a white rubber inside cover . 
#It have Apple insipid write all over it . 
I do give create to Creative for they attractive design . 
Creative have put a lot of effort into make this player appeal to those true geek that search for coolness and functionality in electronic device . 
Creative be defiantly give the ipod a run for they money with this device . 
it make the Nomad I purchase feel and look like junk . 
everything shine of quality . 
I be more excited about this player upon open than I be about the Nomad . 
#first I remove each piece and lay they out on my coffee table . 
#Next I want to update the software , after a quick firmware upgrade the player be ready to go . 
#i sync the player with Napster software and it download the library I have already create . 
#My PC only support USB 1.0 not the 2.0 which be blaze fast . 
#so the download be much slower . 
the interface work great . 
I enjoy get use to the touch pad . 
in minute I be easily navigate through the menu . 
what impress I most be the sound . 
at 128 the song sound very good . 
#my hobby be home audio and home theater . 
the Zen live up to the audio quality I love and expect . 
the Earbuds be great headphone as good as my AGK Studio 240 , well not as good but darn close . 
#Creative say that the software engine for this mp3 be the best hand down . 
#i believe they . 
#Overall this play be my introduction into the market . 
the Zen be a impressive purchase and I would highly recommend it to anyone use Napster . 
#If you be a itunes person then no one could argue against a ipod . 
#I get my Zen Micro last week . 
I absolutely love it . 
it be so small . 
it look sleek and modern . 
it hold plenty of song . 
the sound be amazing . 
the menu be easy to use and understand . 
I love the touchpade control . 
they be easy to use . 
the radio and voice recording be nice . 
the earbud headphone be really nice . 
the battery have a long life . 
it be rechargable and supposedly easy to replace though I have not have to do it yet of course . 
the file ripping/transfering software that come with the player be easy to use . 
it be faster than WMP . 
so far I have no complaint with this player . 
if anyone be thinkn of get a ipod mini , forget it and go with this player . 
it be cheaper , hold more song and be smaller . 
#If you be like I who want move to the next phase of portable audio from conventional portable cd player I hope you find this usefull . 
#Space : 5gb = 2500 song . 
#If you have a huge cd collection , 5GB can hold only a part of you cd collection . 
#remember mp3 format let you store ton of song . 
I have store 40 audio cd and i still have close to 2.8 gb free . 
User Interface : the software be simple and straight forward . 
#Havent read the manual till now -lrb- remember I be good time computer user -rrb- . 
pc software that come with the player be not as simple as i tune but its not bad at all . 
the scrol bar agian take some get use to . 
you can use the player to store you computer data file -lrb- good feature to have -rrb- . 
Battery : a big big plus . 
most of the other player I check dont have user servicable battery . 
#zen micro do . 
#I have two spare battery -lrb- bring on ebay for 28 buck each -rrb- . 
#remember this be a huge plus when travel . 
each battery last about 10-11 hour . 
#If one battery drain just snap the spare one and you be back in bussiness . 
another good feature be that you can charge the battery by just connect the player to you computer use the USB cable . 
FM tuner & Microphone : have a tuner in the player be a blessing . 
#Dont have to switch to another device for fm tuner . 
since zen do not have a external antena it have some problem catch weak signal but it work . 
builtin microphone be great for record short voice note . 
#I have hear in other player these have to be bring separately . 
sound : this be where I love Zen the most . 
excellent sound I mean the player have juice . 
#i dont use the headphone that come with it instead I use Bose Triport headphone . 
#the player have great potential -lrb- ur experiance may differ base on you headphone -rrb- . 
the bass treble the sound detail be awsome . 
I compare it to other CD player -lrb- two model of Panasonic , Rio & samsung -rrb- and they be no way even near Zen Micro . 
look and shape : I have a black one and the first time I charge it and switch it on jeez the blue light look so cool . 
its compact and have round edge . 
fit well in hand in trouser pocket . 
freebie you get : a cradle with detachable stand and belt clip , some thing very handy and useful . 
I dont use the belt clip cuz it fail to hold the player securely -lrb- design problem -rrb- . 
#Instead I use a cellphone cover with a belt clip and it work just fine . 
you get a USB cable headphone , a pouch , software except headphone you will like every thing else . 
what I dont like : nothing much except Headphones , Belt clip design . 
#Creative have not lounch any silicon cover for the player like ipod 's -lrb- I think belkin make it for ipod -rrb- . 
#stuff you may need to buy : wire remote from creative . 
#This be a must have . 
#spare battery incase you need some extra hour without charge . 
#tested with the same mp3 for benchmark #I can not help but feel peeve by the attitude create by Apple enthusiast that basically detract from anything that attempt to compete with Apple product in the marketplace . 
thankfully , Creative have come through with a product that put the ipod back in its place . 
#Nevertheless , I still get shirk when someone out of ignorance state `` but it be not a ipod ! '' 
or `` never hear of it , I will go with the ipod '' . 
# _ about the hype : I must applaud Creative for they restraint . 
by focus exclusively on quality rather than excessive marketing , they have introduce a player that can look the ipod straight in the eye and not flinch . 
it fit comfortably in my shirt pocket and while very well-designed , do not look to ostentatious while I be walk around with it . 
the interface , while a bit confusing at first , be very easy to navigate after about 15 minute . 
Battery life be exceptional , last longer than the 8-10 hour that seem reasonable with most music player on the market . 
transfer file could not be easier thanks to the included software bundle . 
also , I be quite partial to the Creative MediaSource Organizer and Player software , which I have with Audigy ZS sound card originally ; it be definitely a add plus . 
this device look pretty nice but it be really not very competitive . 
the ipod mini be smaller and sexier , albeit limit in support format and the Rio Karma be a far better value . 
the karma be only $ 5 more , it be small , have a 20 gig drive and support more format include ogg . 
the karma do not look as sexy but it be interface be very efficiently design . 
#in fact , it be much better than the ipod in that regard . 
#the karma also have a very long battery life . 
#having own both the karma and other Creative Lab product -lrb- include Zen -rrb- I would have to say the Karma also sound better . 
#no comparison in my opinion . 
after a week I try to load some more song and delete a few but the auto load do not do anything but turn on my player . 
#I try to figure out another way to load the song and attempt another upgrade with no result . 
#I email the company and after 2 day be tell to read they Q&A site and then download again . 
#I try the help menu that reference GUI button that do not exist on my version . 
#i be less than satisfy . 
it seem like the software be just not respond . 
the support have be less than impressive , consider the cost . 
#They respond - after I tell they I have a Zen Micro and suggest that my `` jukebox '' need to be purge . 
#after narrow my choice down to the Zen Micro or IPod Mini , I read countless review on both for about a week until my eye practically start bleed . 
#I really like both of they and as with any other popular product , they both have they share of negative review warn of they shortcoming . 
#when I finally could not take it anymore , I decide to pull the trigger on the Zen Micro . 
the extra gb of hardrive space , removeable battery and fm tuner , as well as the fact that I be previously a satisfied owner of the Nomad II put it over the top for I . 
#not to mention that everyone else at the office have a ipod , so I be kinda ' hope for a good alternative . 
fortunately for I , I have yet to have a single problem with this player . 
#after read the review , I be all ready for the unit to lock up on I after the initial charge ... but it never happen . 
#my preference for the touchpad sensitivity setting be ` medium ' . 
#a few reviewer have also complain about the print manual which be probably one of the biggest waste of paper ever include with a electronic device . 
however , there be a more detailed PDF manual on the CD -lrb- and online -rrb- that should answer any question about the operational feature of the Zen Micro . 
while the software may not be as easy as i-tune , it be not difficult to use by any stretch . 
as oppose to the Nomad II or any other flash base player , the song load extremely fast ... about one or two seconds per song . 
I also like the fact that you can edit you MP3 title , etc. #after they have be load into the Zen which be something I have have to do many time already . 
#I say get one today !! 
it have issue right off the bat , with freezing up , stay in ` SHUTTING DOWN ' mode , and just not function very well in general . 
the touch-pad would be a great thing if it work well , and as I never have issue get song transfer to the player , I do have problem access they from the player . 
many other reviewer be mention that they have have no problem at all > I would say that the main problem be that this player be just not make very well . 
if someone ask I flat out , i would say to go woth something else . 
#after heavy duty research and reading review , I decide to plunge into the MP3 player circus and get myself the Zen Micro . 
#Why not join the ipodder like the rest of the world ? 
#I have my reason . 
#I have play around with a friend 's ipod a couple time and it be a cool unit . 
perhaps I buy the Micro to be different , the cheaper price tag -lrb- from Amazon -rrb- , the design , or avoid the high ipod theft in NYC subway . 
whichever it may be , I be happy I have make this purchase . 
#I wait a week to make the Micro worthy of a review . 
when I open the box , I be shock by the size of this thing ... it be tiny ! 
it be shorter , sleeker , more compact and fit comfortably in my small hand than the ipod ... My Nokia cell phone tower over this bad boy ! 
the interface have a sassier flair and the blue-lit trim be a added bonus . 
#the ipod , like most Mac product , have a sophisticated but bland , look to they ... Preferrably , I like some sass . 
# :-rrb- I be also happy that my shipment come with all the accessory -lrb- minus extra battery -rrb- . 
#in store , the Micro do not even come with the AC adapter . 
move on to sound department ... it deliver ! 
#I expect this come from Creative . 
the earbud , on the other hand , be decent in sound , but lack in bass . 
functionality , menu be easy to navigate ... as many have mention , the touch pad take some time to get use to , but I have get use to it . 
#I actually prefer the vertical strip rather than run my thumb in continuous circular motion . 
although , I think it could have be design a bit better . 
there be extra feature pack inside this unit -lrb- some that most will hardly ever use -rrb- such as fm radio tuner , voice recorder , calendar , and alarm clock . 
#i be guess the more feature you enable , the more the battery will drain . 
speak of battery , it be removable and replaceable ! 
#the life-span on it , though , be not as advertised , but if you be not a heavy user , you can tick in at 9-10 hour of playback . 
#and if you read the description on Creative 's site , it do mention that the `` actual battery life will vary with use . 
`` overall , the Micro be a solid device and I have not fall into a problem with it yet * knock on wood * . 
it be perfect for those who be not plan on store ton of music . 
transfer music be a breeze . 
I do not subscribe to music service , but as mention on other review , Micro allow you to subscribe to service OTHER than iTunes . 
it may not top the iPod Mini , but it be definitely a alternative if you also want the extra feature and good sound quality . 
strong point : - design : small , comfortable , curved , and stylish . 
10 variety of HOT color make it difficult to choose from . 
you do not need to cough up a extra couple buck for a `` special edition '' to get black ! 
- sound : awesome ! 
- battery : removable/replaceable . 
- Audio Formats : support both MP3 , WMA ... and yeah , WAV too . 
- Radio Quality : weak reception the color be a joke , and I personally hate the stupid vertical touchpad . 
but my biggest gripe be still the extremely ugly design . 
#Creative should hire some real industrial designer . 
still have terrible software . 
you have to wonder why Creative can not get this right . 
look nice but the conrol be awkward and the entire front be touch sensitive . 
you do get 1 more gb than a ipod mini . 
screen review could be better . 
Apple stil do it better but need to come out with a 5 gig minus . 
this product be amazing and better than the ipod you can get at the same price . 
the 4G Ipod cost the same as this 5G Zen Micro . 
it also have a voice recorder and fm radio that you can only get on a ipod if you but a adapter seperately . 
Creative do a awesome job with the design . 
the headphone have great sound and durability and mine come with some extra when I buy it -lrb- a stand , a belt hook , charger -rrb- that I know do not come with every one . 
I have the black one and adore it . 
it look nice and sleek and the blue background light look awesome against the black . 
#i take mine everywhere . 
I buy my Zen Micro three month ago mainly because I prefer the size and style to the iPod minus . 
overall , I have be very impressed with the player . 
I have have almost no problem with the firmware -lrb- ie , lock-up , shut-downs etc -rrb- , but I have keep the player up to date . 
#Also , the latest version of the firmware seem to actual deliver -lrb- in fact , more than deliver -rrb- the 12 hour battery life the specification claim . 
#originally I be only get around 8 hour of playtime out of my Zen Micro , but now I consistently get 10-13 . 
I be not sure whether this be relate to the charge cycle of its li-ion battery , the better firmware , or a combination of both factor . 
I imagine if I leave my player untouch -lrb- no backlight -rrb- it could play for considerably more than 12 hour at a low volume level . 
one of my favorite feature about the player be its ability to sync to Windows Media Player . 
#with the latest version -lrb- 10 -rrb- , I can simply browse my WMP library , add songs/albums/artists to the sync list , and then sync all of the track at any time . 
its just as fast as the include Creative software , but much less invasive , and overall better look . 
#With WMP10 , you do not need to install any software other than the driver , which make use multiple computer fairly simple . 
the touchpad be great once you get use to it , and I much prefer it to standard button or scroll wheel -lrb- as on the Dell DJ for example -rrb- . 
they be sensitive and accurate -lrb- perhaps too accurate , it sens through t-shirt cloth , but the touchpad can be lock -rrb- , but easy to clean , unlike button . 
also , the touchpad seem to be waterproof to some degree . 
the FM radio 's reception be not spectacular , but it will pick up the most powerful station in any give metro area . 
its ability to record radio be useful as well , but would have be moreso if it could be preset . 
the player look great , feel great , and sound great . 
so far it have be very durable -lrb- other than the little pad on the earbud -rrb- , but those be not really necessary as I find they comfortable on they own . 
they also sound excellent compare to other earbud include retail set like Panasonics and Sennheisers . 
I have drop the device several time onto hard surface , and it still work flawlessly . 
#every few year I crawl out into the electronic world , in search of a new MP3 player to replace the horribly inadequate one I currently own . 
this year , it seem that I choose my timing perfectly , have discover the awesome device that be the Zen Micro . 
#Of all the player that I have own in the past -lrb- 6 of they -rrb- , all of they have have drawback and problem . 
#Although some come close to perfection , none of they leave I completely happy with they performance . 
#You ask , yup . 
#That 's it . 
#I know this list be horribly unreasonable , which be why it amaze I how many player lack some of these basic feature . 
#slow file transfer , menu that take age to cycle through , and poor battery life plague many of the ! 
#players that be currently available , but not the Zen Micro . 
everything that I have list above , the Zen have , and more . 
the menu be easy to scroll through ; they be lay out naturally , and make sense . 
the computer interface be 90 % good , only lose point due to the fact that `` creative '' branding be all over the place within it . 
song transfer lightning fast , and the two battery that come in my box give I 24 hour of listen time . 
so far I have use all of the above-mentioned feature , and find they well design , and easy to understand . 
#not everything in this world be 1 ! 
00 % good though , and the Zen do have a few drawback . 
another thing I do not like be that some of the feature take 1-2 seconds to load up . 
#these be limit to the voice recorder , address book , and such . 
#I will be use the player 99 % of the time as a MP3 device , so these small pause be entirely bearable , for the add feature just to be available . 
that be it for now , what be you do still read this , click the `` add to Cart '' button already ! 
#UPDATE March 3rd , 2005 : I buy my dark Blue Zen Micro back in November , when they first come out . 
right out of the box , I love it , better feature than the Ipod , great sound quality and no limitation on what music source I can use . 
#I load my whole cd collection on it and take it everywhere , even at work . 
so , I be one who be ready to give it 5 star with no complaint at all . 
#then last week , my player just quit work , period . 
well , I get my second player , and right out of the box it be not work right and once again , after consult customer se ! 
#rvice , they say I should send it in for repair . 
#I love the Zen Micro , and thus it pain I to say this , but I have a hard time recommend something , when I have have two of they break on I in such a short time of own they . 
they obviously have quality and reliability problem . 
they have a good concept here , and I normally expect a lot better quality from Creative , so maybe they will do better with the next gen version , but for now I say buyer beware . 
ORIGINAL REVIEW December 2004 I be sorry to read about other people have problem with they Zen Micro , but mine have work great ! 
this be my first MP3 player and I be so impressed with what such a small device can do . 
I have rip over 100 song from my cd collection and it be so easy and fast , and they all sound great . 
#I do not experience any problem with the software or get my computer to recognize the player . 
#My PC be run Windows 98 though ... maybe have old outdated thing be a good thing for once ! 
#y ! 
e , the interface take a little get use to , but once I do , it be almost second nature now . 
I love that you can create custom playlist , and organize music in so many different way . 
only slight negative I have have so far be that I have not be able to get it to accept any of my WAV file yet . 
#It 's suppose to support that format , but I keep get a file transfer failure no matter what I try . 
my other nit be that it do not include at least some kind of carry case for everything . 
yes , there be a belt clip , but that do not hold the extra battery and usb cable . 
the little bag it come with be cheap and useless . 
it barely hold anything and mine just put a bunch of thread fuzzy all over the player , because the bag be cheap and seem to be come apart . 
#I throw it away . 
#Those be minor complaint though . 
I love my dark blue zen micro and would definitely recommend it . 
#Soon I will have every CD song I care about from my collection to carry around with I . 
#amazing . 
#I be a new to mp3 player . 
#for year I have download song and burned cd , but I decide to simplify my life and get a mp3 player . 
#after reading review and talk to a few friend , I decide on the Zen . 
it be not a perfect product but it do have a lot go for it . 
the FM tuner , the 5G of storage , and the removable disk be all great feature . 
#the removable disk be not really explain in the product literature but basically it allow you to partition a portion of the drive for datum . 
#You can then hook up the Zen via USB to any win2k or later computer and use that partition to store datum file . 
#any audio file in this area can not be play by the player . 
#I primarily get the Zen to use for band practice , so I use the removable disk to store lyric and sheet music . 
the fit and finish of the product be first-rate . 
#the slow throbbing glow that it emit during charging be cool too . 
on the downside , I think the interface take some get use to and the Zen software ! 
be not as intuitive as I would like . 
also , the earbud that come with it sound great but be uncomfortable -lrb- although my wife do not have a problem -rrb- , so I buy a pair of over-the-ear headphone . 
#I have not use the Organizer feature -lrb- apparantly you can sync with Outlook -rrb- . 
#You can also record with the build in mic and record fm broadcast , I have not try those either . 
overall , I be very pleased with it . 
the more I use it and figure out how to do thing , the more i like it . 
#I would give the Creative Zen Micro five star without hesitation ... except for the eight hour of my life I can never get back . 
#doing what , you ask ? 
#Why , troubleshooting , mediate software conflict , devise workaround , and when thing get too bizarre , even call tech support . 
#Now , there be nothing wrong with the Zen Micro a few month in beta testing would not iron out . 
#But , they rush it to market , so you , general public , get to roll the dice . 
#are you feel lucky today ? 
#Who know -- you may avoid a migraine altogether . 
before you run out and buy a ipod , understand something : there be reason the Zen be worth encounter this kind of hassle , principally excellent -lrb- for MP3 -rrb- sound quality . 
the supply headphone be hands-down better than the mediocre ipod bud . 
#That say , you can get more of what the Zen be capable of by donate they to you local iPod person -lrb- they be white -rrb- and get a pair of $ 60 - $ 80 aftermarket headphone . 
#i be get stunningly good resul ! 
#ts with Sennheiser HD-497 phone . 
#An aside about sound quality : you can have good sound or 2,000 + song , not both . 
#you be better off not drop below 128 kbp , especially with music . 
# 64 kbp be a terrible price to pay . 
#if you absolutely , positively need over 2,000 song for you next wolverine photo shoot , get a 10 GB player . 
the player be smaller than you think . 
#something about the picture suggest a deck-of-cards size , but you can hide the Micro completely under a standard business card . 
the touch pad be over-sensitive , and be adjustable to only slightly oversensitive . 
#You quickly learn to brush you thumb ever so lightly over its surface . 
#to minimize any frustration -lrb- and the odds that you may return a usable unit -rrb- , keep the following in mind : 1 . 
while you unit be ! 
#Keep in mind the required upgrade may be a beta version -lrb- mine be -rrb- . 
# 2 . 
some upgrade be need for the Micro to work properly with the Windows XP operate system and Media Player 10 . 
# 3 . 
you may need to briefly disable various spam blocker , cookie swatter , and antivirus program -lrb- I know , I know -- get offline first -rrb- . 
#my gatekeeper program keep fix away a few time until I get wise to it . 
#I buy this item in part due to the good review here on Amazon . 
the machine itself seem fine , but the software that come with it be awful . 
after installation , the very first time I boot up the Creative MediaSource Organizer , intend to use its cd burning and ripping function , it totally short out . 
I be up all night try to make the stupid thing work , to no avail . 
#Now I have to wait another few day for they to get back to I again , probably with more worthless suggestion ? 
#and t!his be what I get for my $ 200 on this mp3 player ? 
#I think I will stick to cd . 
the Zen Micro be near perfect . 
#I buy my Zen Micro last december as a christmas gift to myself , save for a few software issue , I could not be happier with my purhcase . 
#I have own this player for nine month now and it be be on 5 cross country trip , one trans-atlantic honeymoon , and numerous roadtrip . 
#It 's be in my pocket , in my car , and in my bag in 20 inch of snow and 100 degree summer . 
# 3It 's be drop , shuffle , kick , and Lumbered . 
it be still alive , still kick , and still play . 
#I have never own a ipod , so this will not be a which one be better review . 
#All of my file be mp3 or wma , Windows Media Player be my primary music suite , i use it to burn , play , rip , and sync . 
#So start out i know i want a window friendly player . 
the Zen Micro -lrb- mine 's black -rrb- have a lot go for it . 
it fit into a hand well , it have a removable battery -lrb- this be important -rrb- , great sound quality , fm stereo , recorder , smooth UI , and a feature that most unipod lack ... char ! 
#m . 
#when it be be use or charge it emit a low pulsating blue light . 
#It 's do not have a scroll wheel , but it have a strip ! 
#most people complain about the sensitivity , but it can easily be adjust for personal preference . 
#My ONLY complaint be that when i first receive it , it be a little buggy . 
it would not always work seemlessly with WMP and it often require I to restart the frozen micro by take out the battery and restart it . 
#over and over again . 
#but after a few firmware release it be work without a hitch . 
#I have programe WMP to throw a few favorite on there all the time and always put my new music -lrb- less than 3 month -rrb- on so I can listen to they in the gym . 
the accesory that come with the player be great . 
white earbud -lrb- i replace those with some shure headphone , big difference -rrb- , a case , a stand , a clip -lrb- which do not really work -rrb- , and a nice little zen micro bag . 
#Also all the required cable and what not . 
#to I , currently at $ 218 , this player be a!best in class . 
it give you the most bang for you buck , period . 
pick you favorite color and buy it . 
#alot of people seem to compare any music player to a ipod . 
#comments such as `` it be stylish '' or `` it look cool '' or `` everyone have it '' do not nesseseraly make something good . 
#about the Ipod : it have it 's downfall as well . 
as for the Zen Micro :\ Cons : I read that every button be touch sensitive , and that very annoying when all the main button be on the front . 
after research of other creative hard drive player , i find that most of they be not very durable and tend to crash -lrb- read most review on amazon.com and see for yourself -rrb- . 
last , i find the price a bit expensive for a product such as this . 
# $ 190 or $ 200 or less would have be much more reasonable -lrb- price compareble to 20gb mp3 player -rrb- . 
#as for the warrenty , i havent see it yet , but i fear for a short on ! 
#e again . 
pro the design be very nice , and the color be too . 
#They be bold color , not the -lrb- personally -rrb- irratating tone down ` light ' ipod color . 
the battery be also convenient , but could have be better , such as the Zen Touch 's battery -lrb- but at least this one be removable -rrb- . 
verdict : have I not need something with a tad bit more space , I consider this player fair game . 
#closing : for everyone who be shallow and buy the Ipod only becouse of it 's look -lrb- i be not say it be necissarily bad -rrb- , here be a joke : what do the Pencil Sharpener say to t ! 
#he Pencil ? 
#stopping go in circle and get to the point . 
#why go in circle to find something you want ? 
-lrb- :-RRB- -rrb- anyway , my wife get this for I for my birthday and I love the thing . 
#she also get I a iRiver FM modulator that plug into the ligher outlet , so i can play it through my regular radio . 
#anyway , here be the pro and con : + linux compatible with the 1.x series of firmware . 
the program be call Gnomad and work great for I and seem to cover all the feature the included window sofware do . 
+ look snazzy + smaller than a pack of smoke - easily transport + ac charger include as well as a hardshell that come with a clip and a stand adapter + USB cable ! 
#included - charge via USB , so whenever you plug it into you computer , it be charge up . 
#Aren ' t they something of digital sound expert ? 
+ sort music by artist , album , genre , etc. . 
. 
it be easy to wade through 5 gig of tune to find what you be look for . 
#Also provide for playlist which be nice , but really only usefully set up through the pc software . 
#before i get into the con , i will make a note about the scrollpad . 
it do take some get use to . 
#my initial reaction be to tap the up and down arrow , when in reality , you need to touch , maintain contact and slide you finger up and down . 
#it be a little counter intuitive at first , but work great when you use to it . 
#it be a neutral feature in my book . 
#simple mechanical button would probably work ! 
#just as well and would be less confusing for new owner , but i guess they want to rival the ipod 's search wheel . 
# - do not like to be charge via USB on non window pc or pc that do not have the Zen Micro driver install . 
it have the odd side effect of the button only partially work ? 
#simply remove the battery and then replace it fix the issue , but it be annoying . 
#the new firmware fix this as long as you put the player in lock mode before plug it into say pc . 
- user 's guide do not cover a lot of important info that be cover on they website . 
#I definately recommend upgrade the firmware , which be as simple as download a program from creative website and run it with you player plug in . 
# -lrb- linux geek - > avoid the 2.x series that be aim at window media play ! 
#er compatibility , you can not downgrade the firmware . -rrb- 
- can not be leave in the car ... it immediately shut down with a overheating error if leave in a hot car for too long . 
but since it be so small , it be not a big deal to bring it with I . 
#I have be research MP3 player for the last two week . 
#of course the first one I decide to research first be the Apple iPod . 
#However , as soon as I find out that I could only download song from itune , I immediately decide that be NOT the MP3 player for I . 
#in addition , I do not like the fact that I would have to pay $ .99 for each song I want to download . 
#So I go to www.playforsure.com to see what device be compatible with various download service . 
#I have be eye the Creative Zen Micro 5GB as I research various player . 
#I have a lot of song that I need to download . 
#pick it up from the store . 
#So I decide on the black one . 
and I must say ... this mp3 be very cool . 
#It be exactly the same size as my flip phone . 
it be so cute ... and behind the black panel it glow in a neon blue . 
after installation , which be very simple ... I download any update software from the creative website , before I download any music . 
#There be two download I have to complete . 
#One be the firmware upgrade from the installation cd and the second be regard the `` playforsure '' -lrb- even though it be in BETA -rrb- , to make sure I could use Napster 2 Go . 
#I then register with Napster 2 Go and it immediately recognize my player . 
#and within one hour I have download , organize my play list and be listen to the song I download . 
the sound be very nice . 
#i feel like it be just I and the music and I be transport into a different world . 
#It also come with a case so you can either stand it up or use a belt clip . 
#So I can not wait to get on my treadmill with it . 
I also like the lock feature , so it make the touch pad inactive . 
#I would say the only thing I need to adjust be the sensitivity of the touch pad . 
even when I set it to low , it be still very hard for I to adjust the player to where and what I want it to do . 
#However , I be go to try the suggestion of change the sensitivity to high and see if that solve the problem . 
otherwise , I be extremely please with the Creative Zen Micro 5GB MP3 player . 
#PS . 
#I have be ZETAZEN long before this player come into existence ... lol and my player 's name be ZETAZEN . 
# :--RRB- www.zetazen.com #I have to revise my review today ! 
... if you be still try to decide Ipod or Zen Micro , Yahoo! have just close the deal . 
#They now offer Yahoo Music Engine , wich be like Napster to go , but at a fraction fo the price . 
#its $ 4.99 a month -lrb- $ 60 annually -rrb- to download as much music as you like . 
#You can fill it up with anything you like out of there 1 Million song library . 
however after play with it for three week now , I be convinced , the Zen Micro be superior . 
I think sound quality should be the first and foremost feature , and the Zen be leap and bound better in sound quality , with no need to upgrade the earphone . 
#when you do not feel like tote a PDA while out for the day -lrb- i.e. cycling , window shopping , etc , -rrb- simply download everything thru outlook . 
I have read about the issue with the scroll bar , but they must have take care of that now . 
Mine be as easy to use as the minus without any firmware download . 
its also smaller , and get more look . 
#People be use to see so may ipod , that when they see my zen , they have to ask question . 
a extra gig of room , fm radio , voice recorder , PIM application with sync to Outlook . 
this be really a no brainer . 
#buy the zen ! '' 
#After use it for a week , I wish I have purchase the Ipod . 
#This be by far my biggest complaint . 
another problem be that the latest 2.0 firmware upgrade move you into Windows Media Player 10 which seem to be very , very slow for download . 
charge -LSB- -2 -RSB- # ... then this might intrigue you greatly . 
#the hook with this MP3 player , distinguish it from the other , be clearly go to be the OS application it provide . 
#finally , someone have figure out that build some smart into the player will help it compete with ipod . 
#the latest craze for MP3 manufacturer be the 5gb microdrive , a 25 % boost from the 4gb one supply by Hitachi . 
#then what ? 
#What compel you to choose one over the other ? 
#It have to be the UI and user experience . 
#The Carbon be nice but offer no improvement to the near-perfect ipod experience . 
#the scroll wheel be not a Apple innovation , but it take Apple to put it on they MP3 player for the obvious to become clear to the industry . 
#so tack on a scroll wheel and ... you still have to compete against the intuitive os-based application that a ipod offer the user . 
#It 's easy to find song , organize song , and also carry some essential and diversion . 
#The iPod get it right , the Carbon do not . 
#Today , the Creative Zen Micro prove it , too , get it right . 
Better for the Zen Micro be Outlook compatibility . 
#This make the Zen Micro the first choice for mp3 owner with a windows-based system . 
#i be not profess to be a consumer-survey corporation , but I do not know * anyone * with a iTunes account . 
#However , I do know about a dozen people with well over 4000 mp3 each . 
#what device would I recommend ? 
#Well , if size matter , and you like the idea of a lime-green or bright yellow device , then I would have to go with a Creative Zen Micro . 
the Zen Micro be no exception : in addition to the case , it come with a neck strap , and have all of the necessary cable for synce and charge . 
the extra spare battery be just a neat bonus . 
if I could , I would trade-up on my creative muvo2 and snag a Zen Micro tomorrow . 
# **** I give up a ton of positive review to add this addendum . 
#I do not work for Creative ; I have a chance to play with a review copy in-depth , as other have -lrb- See Engadget , Gizmodo , or c | net as example -rrb- . 
#Just because Amazon do not have it to sell do not mean the product be unavailable for review . 
#please judge any review you read -- in any medium , be it here or newspaper or magazine -- by its own merit . 
**** Fred #I already own the Creative Nomad Zen , the 30 gig version . 
#I want something more portable , shirt-pocket size , and something to complement the new Yahoo Music Unlimited site . 
this be a perfect blend to accomplish both task . 
I also own a retail store and this little guy easily plug into my AUX slot in the store 's sound system . 
feature for feature , I find it a very sweet little player ; equip with a higher end headphone system , between this and th larger Zen Ihardly use my home stereo system anymore . 
#and I give my cd plyaer away in a garage sale . 
if you buy this player to use with Napster to go , wait a while . 
a lot of people be have problem with the firmware update require to use the player for Napster to go . 
. 
the firmware be beta and they be be a lot of bug in it . 
#check out message board on Napster for more info . 
#these be the thing I be curious about when I be shop around . 
on the whole , I be quite happy with the purchase . 
#now the downside : one of the feature that factored into my choice of a Micro ! 
#instead of a ipod -lrb- I know this be a tediously recur theme in these review , but I want to get my two cent in -rrb- be the fm radio . 
I like some local station , Stern , and NPR , and so the radio seem like a great option . 
imagine my disappointment , though , when the Zen Micro prove able to play only the mega-strongest fm signal in my area . 
it seem like you need to park yourself right next to a radio tower for the Micro to pull in a strong sound . 
the battery , as other have say , also seem weaker than Creative suggest . 
#try a additional * six * hour , methink . 
still , that be enough time that I be still satisfy , if a bit grouchy with Creative 's overhyped promise . 
Have not have any issue with the headphone or fragility . 
as I say , I do not regret the purchase at all . 
#to use a bas!eball metaphor : I be hope Creative hit a home run here , and I think the Zen Micro be more like a stand-up double . 
respectable , solid , but not awe-inspiring . 
#If you be consider a ipod mini or even a ipod , read this . 
#I look at the market extensively and take a lot of advice before make the big buy here . 
#I want a player that have good capacity , construction that can stand up to exercise , good sound quality , good battery life , good look , compatibility , and a fair price . 
#tall order , eh ? 
actually , the Creative Zen Micro solve all that . 
sound quality ? 
phenomenal . 
unarguably better than Apple 's , and nice earbud to boot . 
#looks ? 
#Let 's just say it be no coincidence I put `` Foxy Lady '' on there . 
you choice of ten color in a beatiful package . 
#capacity ? 
#Apple have try to hide something from you : most people do not actually need more than a few gig at most . 
five gigabyte be plenty for my great album . 
# -lrb- like I really want `` Hotel California '' anyway . 
# -rrb- construction ? 
tough as nail . 
no skip , and it have not falter once -lrb- despite you inevitable drop or two . 
# -rrb- compatibility ? 
flawless . -rrb- 
no locked-in proprietary business like Apple ; this baby play wma too . 
the voice recorder be a beautiful add-on ; not even necessary , but just a example of why Apple just want you money and Creative Labs want to make a better player . 
get nice sound too . 
the FM tuner be just a little spare icing on the cake . 
#and the price ? 
#a bargain $ 200 . 
#Do NOT buy Apple . 
#inferior quality at a higher price -lrb- and shoddy reliability -rrb- be not quite justified just because they have a better spokesperson . 
in conclusion , this player be beautiful . 
power for the tech-savvy , ease of use for the less fortunate . 
but it ; you will not regret it . 
#I must say , after ton of research , I have choose the right Mp3 player . 
the sound quality be superb , much better than that of a ipod , in my opinion . 
the radio work excellent in my area , I be not sure everywhere else . 
the software be very easy to use , and the transfer be super fast ! 
#Mine come with a wall adapter , but it charge when plug into the computer anyway . 
the blue light also make this player one of the most fashionable in the market also . 
#Overall I have no complaint , this be jus!t simply the best player on the market for a really low price , so why look anywhere else ? 
#I have be use iTunes for about a year now with the intention of eventually buy a ipod . 
#That be before the Zen Micro come along . 
I have have it for about a week now and have to say it be one of the best purchase I have ever make . 
it be a great look , easy-to-use device but it be the sound quality which be truly amazing -- far better than my Sony mini-disc player . 
I have no problem with the touch pad -lrb- once the sensitivity be set to low -rrb- and the interface be a breeze to use without even look at the PDF manual . 
#I can not comment on the bundle software as I have not even look at it . 
why bother when it work perfectly with Media Player 10 ? 
#as for the problem with lock up mention in a previous post , it only seem to happen if the USB cable be unplugged while WMP 10 be still run . 
#I just close the program down first , wait for the message to appear on the Micro , then unplug it . 
#This appear to prevent the lockup issue . 
#the battery life do not appear to be any!where close to 12 hour but at least it be replaceable -lrb- and they include a second one free -rrb- . 
I would give it about 6 or 7 hour , although it will probably get better after a few charge cycle . 
#This be probably the biggest reason I choose the Micro over a ipod . 
the extra gb be just a bonus . 
the headphone which come with it be mediocre at best but what can you expect from a set of `` ear bud '' . 
#Plug in a decent set or hook it up to a stereo system and prepare to be impress . 
if you look for a great sound mini player , you can not go wrong with the Zen Micro . 
#after much research I decide that the Zen Micro be the best mp3 player for I . 
unfortunately I be wrong . 
within one month , my player completely die . 
-lrb- it have lock up multiple time previously , but always manage to work afterwards -rrb- this time , the touch screen would not respond to I and none of the button work . 
so I take out the battery and put it back in again , only to find that it would not work . 
#Frustrated , I exchange the player only to get another faulty one ! 
I have the second one for less than two week when I notice a rattling/humming/buzzing sound while music be play . 
#I have try different headphone , upgrade firmware , use different file and nothing help . 
I send creative customer service 3 email in which they do not help I one bit and do not seem to even want to help . 
#I have hear many good review of this product and I wonder if maybe I just have bad luck . 
it be a good player when it work and I love the design . 
it be too bad , though , that ! 
#I do not want to keep test my luck . 
#this time I be go to get something a little more reliable - a ipod mini . 
the Creative Zen Micro , at first glance , be a dream come true for all mp3 and music lover . 
#I absolutely do not want to by a ipod . 
the Zen offer a great alternative . 
#Now , there be many alternative to the Ipod , but I want a nice design , also , and not some generic look mp3 player . 
#I want something that look at least almost as good as a ipod . 
#I see the Zen , and-BOOM-I buy one for I and one for a family member . 
#What happen follow : Let 's start with the software . 
it be easy to use , and make transfer you cd collection to the player a cinch . 
#You can compress the file for more storage space before you start the transfer . 
#the sonic detail at the highest compression rate -lrb- 64 kbp WMA -rrb- be crazy . 
the clarity be unbelievable , which mean you can cram almost the full 2,5 ! 
# 00 song capacity of the disk without have to worry about the quality of you music -lrb- the Zen micro , actually start off with about 4.7 GB after load the software -rrb- . 
#When mine die , I have 1,022 song loaded , but only use a little over 2gb of space . 
other mp3 player will not give you the sonic clarity of the Zen at this compression level , so I imagine they will not at lower one , either . 
#check the Zen 's S/N ratio and db rating . 
#They be better than the IPOD , plus , there be seven EQ setting -lrb- include custom -rrb- . 
the included headphone suck , so get you own . 
transfer mp3 be a cinch with the included software . 
the Zen play mp3 , wma and wave format , which make it more versatile than the Ipod . 
the greatest thing about the software -lrb- in my humble -rrb- be that it read you cd info . 
#and label it before you burn the CD into the Zen . 
Track # , name , artist , album and genre be automatically-retrieved via internet-labeled , and properly catergorize into the Zen . 
#this feature will ! 
#just check the menu on you zen , and it be all there , and neatly store . 
#At least , that be , while it be still alive . 
#It be a tad too sensitive for a first time user -lrb- my family member , however , have no problem with it -rrb- , and it drive I nut at first . 
#a trick I use be to manually capitalize all the info . 
#going into the Zen from my computer , so my stubby , clumsy finger could cordinate better with my color blind , near , far and mid sighted eye . 
#Once I do this , vision of burn my cds-literally-dance around my head , and all be right in the world -lrb- of course , I would have back my file up , silly -rrb- . 
#the feature this thing have be ! 
just too numerous to list : FM radio , which have weak reception , but at least it there , and a microphone , to name just two . 
oh , and another be the cool `` halo '' light that surround the touch pad , and light 's up when you touch the screen , and how the light glow when the Zen be connect to the computer . 
one : it be size : it be smaller than the Ipod Mini , and hold more music -lrb- 5gb to the IPOD mini 's 4gb -rrb- . 
#It 's smaller , in most case than the palm of you hand , and be ergonomically curved . 
#I love this thing . 
#i have have Dell Pocket DJ owner , IPOD minus and shuffle owner marvel at this thing . 
#it cost less than , in most case , $ 190 . 
two : it have a removeable/rechargeable battery , so you do not have to send the thing in when the re ! 
#chargeable battery run out ; thereby , wait 3 week to get it back , and possibly with all of you music erase . 
#why ? 
because the `` engineer '' at Creative screw up the design of the headphone jack . 
#It 's a admit design flaw that the people at Creative have acknowledge -lrb- google it -rrb- . 
#There be bulletin board and customer review all over the web talk about it . 
again , the headphone jack on this thing be garbage . 
#It come loose after 3 months-give or take-of careful use . 
#using right angled jack on you headphone , which minimize the movement of the headphone while plug in , will not alleviate the problem . 
#I use they . 
again , this be a design flaw in the headphone ! 
#jack that Creative have acknowledge . 
#I know what you be think . 
#You once have a cheap cd player -lrb- or walkman -rrb- that have the same problem , and you just use miniture screwdriver to push the left/right prong out . 
#If only only it be that simple . 
the flaw be inside the Zen . 
#You can not see it by look into the jack where the prong be . 
the flaw be in the circuit board that the headphone jack be connect to . 
#in other word , you have to do almost the equivalent of open heart surgery in order just to see where the problem be . 
#exactly , warranty void . 
#So , if you do not will not to void you warranty , you will have to get in touch with Creative , they will send you a rma number , fix you zen , but you lose all of you dogon music . 
the Creative Zen Micro be a Zen Micro killer , not a Ipod killer . 
#do you research ; check ! 
#out the bulletin board . 
why would anyone buy this when you can get a 20gb ipod that will hold 4 time the number of song -lrb- and even more if AAC encoding be use -rrb- for the same price ??? 
#in addition , ipod can be use as portable hard drive and can display you calendar and contact info . 
this player be fantastic in term of audio quality , ease of use , and feature . 
#However , if you be consider purchase one to use with subscription music service like napster-to-go , or Yahoo Music Unlimited , there be a few thing to keep in mind : 1 . 
to use the Creative Zen player with a subscription service , you need to go to Creative 's web site , and download new software for you pc . 
#You will also need to download and install new firmware on the player . 
#at the time of this writing , that firmware be a `` beta release . '' 
I have not see any problem yet , but if you do not like to tinker a bit , this player can be a little challenging to set up . 
# 2 . 
right now , the creative software transfer subscription music file very slowly . 
#It make USB 2.0 feel like USB 1.1 . 
this do not affect standard MP3 file - just subscription WMA file . 
#the solution ? 
#Use Windows Media Player 10 to do you transfer . 
the subscription file be still a little slower to transfer , but it be only by about 10 % or so . 
# 3 . 
#subscription file need to buffer when you first hit `` play , '' so there be a 4-7 second delay before the first song start . 
#However , once a album be play , there be no gap between song . 
#the player intelligently pre-buffer the next song . 
again , this do not affect regular MP3 file - just subscription drm-encoded file , like those from Napster-to-Go or Yahoo Music Unlimited . 
#these issue knock a single star off the review . 
otherwise , this be a great `` alternative '' MP3 player for those of use who do not want to worship the mighty all-powerful Apple . 
I get it to use with the new $ 5-per-month service from Yahoo -lrb- Music Unlimited , -rrb- and despite the above issue , I love it . 
#the subscription service let I download as much as I want , and the player let I take it wherever I go . 
#Nobody have clearly articulate what exactly about the Ipod mini make it better than this product . 
#Apple apparently have build up a very nice following of brainwashed consumer . 
#It be unlikely that you will ever get the best product just by stick with one company . 
#Apple never be involve with a lot of audio product until the Ipod . 
I have own some kind of creative audio product since 1993 and have never have to call tech support . 
#of course , some be better than other , and I probably could have get a better sound card from another company at some point . 
the main issue now be that this new Zen Micro seem to be the best on the market at least temporarily . 
it beat Apple on the storage space , it beat apple on the removable battery -lrb- and batter life -rrb- , and I personally like its interface more than the Ipod scroll wheel . 
further , the tech spec suggest that it have better audio quality than the Ipod . 
I have have several MP3 player over the past few year , and have to say that this by far be the best that I have own . 
# -rrb- a previous reviewer have mention several different issue with the ` Zen Micro ' . 
#However , they player seem to be defective and creative Labs should be contact before make such harsh statement if they have not be contact already . 
#I must say that there be several factor that influence my purchase . 
#An Apple Ipod Mini be consider . 
however , the Ipod do not come close to the number of extra feature that the ` Zen Micro ' have to offer . 
as far as user interface be concern , the best and easiest to use seem to be the one that come with the player , ` Creative MediaSource Organizer ' . 
#It come with a built-in program simply entitle ` Creative MediaSource Audio Converter ' . 
this program enable the user to batch convert and convert audio file from one format to another . 
these include : MP3 , Wave , WMA , WMA pro , and WMA Lossless ; it be very user-friendly simply by right-click the file -lrb- s -rrb- to be convert . 
by far this seem to be the best value out there for the money ; if you be undecided , the Creative Zen Micro seem to be the best choice . 
I do not know , maybe I get a defective one but first , the player would not shut off , next , the player would not come on - I have to send it away to get repair . 
now , the player 's ear phone jack be not work - I have to send it away again . 
when it be work , it be great but it be very tempermental . 
